---
title: Favourite sit
---

My favourite sit was taken, but no matter: i managed to find a tolerable
alternative. We will not be able to see all the glorious fine details of the
performance, but for a first-timer like her the effect should be overwhelming
anyway, she will not be able to pay attention to subtle things.

Somebody in my place would probably consider it a pity to be unable to find
something new in those details myself, but i wasn't able to do that for a while
already. I was at the show a hundred times, perhaps more. I wasn't really
counting. In the last year i could not find anything new in it. Why do i keep
coming then? Oh, nothing fancy: i'm just trying to imprint the great culture to
the younger generation.

— Aren't we a little bit early? — a member of younger generation looks at me
questiongly, — Why is it so crowded already?

— Didn't you know, — i answer mechanically, — that "Parade on the Face of the
Earth" always start their performance right on time? And as soon as it starts,
nobody is allowed in.

— Oh. I'm so not used to this.

The conversation died away: none of us had anything more to say. I did not want
to discuss the performance itself so as not to spoil it (even though using word
"spoil" does not even sound right in the context), and she had enough fun
watching the crowd moving below us (as much as i try, i can't find that
interesting anymore, but if i strain my imagination, i can see potential
appeal). She is a student in social sciences, from what i recall, so that should
be natural. I wouldn't be surprised if she said she likes people.

Oh, but then, what kind of thing can even surprise me these days? I have seen
"Parade on the Face of the Earth" more than a hundred times, as i already
mentioned, and if you have seen PotFotE at least once, you have probably noticed
the distinct lack of any surprising experiences afterwards. It is the ultimate
surprise you can have in your life; everything past it is just a walk downhill
to your death.

Not that it bothers me, mind you. I got used to the idea of glorifying death and
the meaninglessness of our path to it. At my age, i'm fine with having my peak
experience in the past and only being allowed to cherish its memories.

But lets cut short all this elderly rant. It is only fifteen minutes till the
beginning. It might as well be time to stop my mind from generating all the
stray thoughts and concentrate on meditation before the no longer surprising,
but still, splendid experience.

    ***

Few hours later i'm laying on my cozy sofa at home, writing down these
lines. I'm exhausted. Not only by the intense performance, but also by social
interactions. No, that's not right. I'm just sugarcoating it. It was
specifically my companion who made me frustrated.

Oh, what she said was outrageous. "It was nice, but a little too long for my
tastes". And the tone! Her tone was almost indifferent. And there i thought she
was educated enough to see the subtle brilliance of the show! Maybe i'm losing
my ability to make good judgments about people? That would be almost
catastrophic.

To distract myself from these grim thoughts, i get up from the sofa and make
myself a cup of coffee. Espresso machine makes a pleasantly loud noise as it
grinds the beans. Unfortunately, you only need so much for one cup. I would
usually add some milk and cream to an almost latte-like state, but i can't do
that now: not only am i out of fresh milk, i am not in a mood to enjoy myself. I
drink strong black liquid.

I need to somehow live through to the end of this day. Tomorrow — oh, what a
brilliant new day can happen tomorrow! — everything will be back to norm. I may
do some work, or go for a walk, or — a thought i'm trying not to entertain right
now — bring a new acquaintance to the PotFotE. But today is not over just yet
and even without coffee i couldn't make myself sleep this early.

I turn on tv, browse through my favourite channels: none of the new uploads
catches my interest, and i decide to watch them all one after another, until i
feel sleepy enough. "Oh, what a miserable single life do i have" — probably the
last depressive thought that pops up in my mind before i immerse myself into the
first video.

    ***

In the noon we walk through the sunny hot streets, a stark contrast with
yesterday rain. She is an artist i've met at the local gallery; she was standing
at the entrance, lonely and lost in thought, with unlit cigarette in her
mouth. That was an easy pretext to start a conversation: i offered her a
lighter. She looked startled and a little bit nervous, stared like at me like
that for a while, then smiled weakly, accepted the fire and inhaled.

Then it was all by the book: ask to show her works (there turned out to be only
one in the gallery and the process of negotiating another one was not going
smoothly), find an appropriate compliment (this can easily go wrong, but i've
got the experience), add some reassuring philosophic words or whatever feels
natural at that stage. These young artists have too much free time on their
hands, and even if they don't fall for flattery (many do), they might want to
cling to the chance anyway.

So now, half an hour later, i was taking her to the PotFotE. It's a little bit too
early, but we'll "reserve" the sits and then go eat something nice in local
cafe.

I'm a big fan of this cafe by the way. The interior in its modernist style with
huge open space and strict, almost cubist forms, sets up the mood for grand
experiences, — perfect for this place, — and greatest of them all we're going to
dive into just after our lunch.

She orders a salad and some cheese snacks — i try to convince her to take more
and don't mind the prices, but she says she's watching her figure. I can't pass
the opportunity to compliment her, but order a solid dinner for myself. I would
also go for some wine, but the upcoming experience is more important.

— You seem to be a regular customer here, — she says after finishing her humble
plates, — Do you like theater that much?

— Not any sort of theater, but i'm huge fan of "Parade on the Face of the
Earth". You'll understand after the performance.

— I look forward to it, — she says with a hint of irony or even malice in her
smile. Perhaps she thinks i'm too fanatic about it, but i laugh at that thought
in my mind.

— For now, why don't you enjoy your drink? — i push a smoothie that i've
secretly ordered towards her part of the table.

For a moment her face looked odd, as though she was going to say something, but
then she merely accepts and takes a few sips. She visibly enjoys it: my choice
was correct.

    ***

During the performance i have a fit of deja vu. Not surprising after repeating
the same scenes one after another, day after day. But it still bothers me for a
minute.

    ***

— It was better than the last time, Mary, — those few words she says after the
performance, with her deviously innocent smile on her face.

At this point the realization finally hits me. It was all a game. Surprise on
her face, malicious smile, my deja vu, the name which i don't use anymore — they
were all telling me one thing. She wasn't yet another young artist, she was
*the* young artist i've met a few months ago. She repeated her actions almost
precisely, until this last moment of revelation.

Now that the cards are open, i almost feel as if i'm going to be met with a loud
laughter, ironic hand clapping and previously hidden cameras being revealed in
the sunlight. Nothing of the sort. She does not even allow me to indulge in my
shame publicly. She played her joke and went on her ways: perhaps, to draw a new
picture; perhaps, to continue negotiations with the gallery, if what she told
was really true. Perhaps, to play another prank.
