---
title: A few postmodernist musical pieces
---

1. "Concerto number 0 for an acoustic ensemble and recursion"

Performance of this piece must consist of single non-zero length musical phrase
repeated 2^N times, where N is the ordinal number of this performance, starting
from zero.

Following from this definition, no two performances of this piece can occur at
the same time. If someone attempts to start new performance while the
previous one is still going, the later performance does not qualify as
performance of this piece.

To disambiguate in relativist cases, the Southern Pole of Earth, Solar System,
Milky Way, should be used as referential time frame.

Author sincerely believes that no two performances of this piece can start
exactly on the same moment spontaneously. However, if someone manages to do that
deliberately, the resulting performances should be counted as one last
performance of this piece.

Additionally, only acoustic instruments can be used for performance. No
recording of performances of this piece can be considered to have anything to
with this piece. It cannot be called "a recording of this piece" or be used to
get acquainted with it. The only valid way to experience this piece is to hear
one of its performances first hand.

If any amplification is used by performers, it cannot be considered to be
performance of this piece. If, however, someone else uses amplification that
does not interfere with original sound, the original performance is still valid
(the amplified/transmitted version is, of course, not).

Not understanding some of these conditions has no effect on performance
validity. However, for a performance to be considered to be performance of this
piece, it must be announced as such.

2. "Solo on zero-stringed guitar"

For this piece, which is performed solo, one must remove all strings from their
guitar (or use otherwise unstringed guitar, including one that was never
stringed in the first place) and play on it at least for a minute, in the middle
of another, collective performance.

Any electric or acoustic guitar (including bass guitars) is fine; however, no
sound processing effects should be used. Guitar should not be specially prepared
to have additional sound producing capabilities. For the best effect, use a
random second hand guitar.

3. "Etude 'Seven Notes for Planck'"

A major scale played in Planck time. The piece is open for improvisation:
there's no predefined root note and if you're feeling like breaking canons you
can play minor instead.

4. "Longest note"

This vocal piece is/was/will be performed only once, ever. It is the piece in
which vocalist continuously holds a note for the longest time.

5. "'Dialogue' for a broken violin and orchestra"

One of the more traditionalist and easy to perform pieces, in which orchestra
plays march, while solo violinist tries to produce an audible sound from a
violin that is broken beyond repair.

If the violinist succeeds, it is not counted as performance of this piece.

6. "Hymn of refusal"

Another vocal piece in this collection. To perform this piece, vocalist must
refuse a non-fake marriage proposal and then sing three words: "Ich habe genug"
â€” without thinking about Bach.
